DOCS-5079 ASM Protect (#17331)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/application_security/threats/protection.md

---
title: Protection
kind: documentation
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/security/application_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Application Security Management with Datadog"
---

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Beta: IP blocking, user blocking, and suspicious request blocking (In-App WAF)</strong><br>
If your service is running <a href="/agent/guide/how_remote_config_works/#enabling-remote-configuration">an Agent with Remote Configuration enabled and a tracing library version that supports it</a>, you can block attacks and attackers from the Datadog UI without additional configuration of the Agent or tracing libraries.</div>

## Overview

> Application Security Management (ASM) Protect enables you to take blocking action to slow down attacks and attackers. Suspicious requests are blocked in real-time by the Datadog tracing libraries. Blocks are saved in the Datadog platform, automatically and securely fetched by the Datadog Agent, deployed in your infrastructure, and applied to your services.

Author: ```suggestion
Application Security Management (ASM) Protect enables you to slow down attacks and attackers by _blocking_ them. Suspicious requests are blocked in real-time by the Datadog tracing libraries. Blocks are saved in the Datadog platform, automatically and securely fetched by the Datadog Agent, deployed in your infrastructure, and applied to your services.
```

  | Suspicious requests blocking (in-app WAF) |  {{< X >}} |       |       |   |       |

- If you plan to use authenticated user blocking, [add user information to traces][4].

## Blocking IPs and users

You can block attackers that are flagged in ASM [Security Signals][5] temporarily or permanently. In the Signals Explorer, click into a signal to see what users and IP addresses are generating the signal, and optionally block them.

{{< img src="/security/application_security/appsec-block-user-ip.png" alt="A security signal panel in Datadog ASM, allowing to block the attackers' IPs" width="75%">}}

From there, all ASM-protected services block incoming requests performed by the blocked IP or user, for the specified duration. All blocked traces are tagged with `security_response.block_ip` or `security_response.block_user` and displayed in the [Trace Explorer][6]. Services where ASM is disabled aren't protected.

## Denylist

Attackers’ IP addresses and authenticated users that are permanently or temporarily blocked are added to the _Denylist_. Manage the list on the [Denylist page][7].

## Passlist

> You can use the _Passlist_ to permanently allow an IP address, or range of addresses, access to your application. For example, you may wish to add internal IP addresses to your passlist, or IP addresses that regularly run security audits on your application. You can also add specific paths to ensure uninterrupted access. Manage the list from the [Passlist page][8].

Author: Nice catch! fixed

For fine-grained control, you can clone a Datadog managed policy or create a custom policy and set the mode to meet your needs. If you set the policy to `auto-updating`, your applications are protected by the latest detections rolled out by Datadog. You also have the option to pin a policy to a specific version of the ruleset. 

As In-App WAF rules are toggled between modes, the changes are reflected in near real-time for services with [Remote Configuration enabled][2]. For other services, you can update the policy on the [In-App WAF page][9] and then [define In-App WAF rules][10] for the change in behavior to be applied.

Manage In-App WAF by navigating to Security --> Application Security --> Configuration --> [In-App WAF][9].

View blocked suspicious requests in the [Trace Explorer][11] by filtering on the facet `Blocked:true`.

{{< img src="security/application_security/blocked-true.png" alt="ASM Trace Exporer filtered using facet Blocked set to true." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Customize Protection behavior

### Customize response to blocked requests

> {{% asm-protection-page-configuration %}}

Author: agreeed, fixed

> {{< img src="/security/application_security/asm-blocking-page-html.png" alt="The page displayed as ASM blocks requests originating from blocked IPs" width="75%" >}}

Author: Agreed, fixed
